---
date: 2017-01-09T09:00:00+00:00
title: Troubleshooting
menu:
  main:
    parent: "Documentation"
    name: "Troubleshoot"
    weight: 50
---

The pointers in this article will help you troubleshoot and resolve common issues in case Vamp is not running or not behaving as expected.

* [Troubleshoot a full Vamp installation](/documentation/troubleshoot/#troubleshoot-a-full-vamp-installation)
* [Troubleshoot the Vamp hello world quickstart](/documentation/troubleshoot/#troubleshoot-the-vamp-hello-world-quickstart)
* [Troubleshooting tips for using Vamp](/documentation/troubleshoot/#troubleshooting-tips-for-using-vamp)
* [Report an issue](/documentation/troubleshoot/#report-an-issue)

If you find some of the instructions not clear enough or lacking information, please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp.io/issues/new).

---------------------

## Troubleshoot a full Vamp installation
The steps below will help you debug problems encountered when following our full install instructions. 

* [Check the Vamp components](/documentation/troubleshoot/#check-the-vamp-components)
* [Check Elasticsearch](/documentation/troubleshoot/#check-elasticsearch)
* [Check the key value store](/documentation/troubleshoot/#check-the-key-value-store)
* [Check the Vamp workflows](/documentation/troubleshoot/#check-the-vamp-workflows)

### Check the Vamp components
- Check the step by step instructions for your container scheduler [DC/OS](/documentation/installation/dcos/), [Mesos/Marathon](/documentation/installation/mesos-marathon/), [Kubernetes](/documentation/installation/kubernetes/), [Rancher](/documentation/installation/rancher/) or [Docker](/documentation/installation/docker/). 
- Check the information panel in the Vamp UI (click the i-icon in the top right corner). If some fields are empty, you may need to adjust your configuration. See the [example Vamp configurations](/documentation/installation/example-configurations).
- Check you are running supported versions of all components.
- Check the [Vamp release notes](/documentation/release-notes/latest) for known issues and breaking changes.
- Check that the `vamp` and `vamp-gateway-agent` docker containers are running using `docker ps`. 
- Check the `vamp` and `vamp-gateway-agent` logs `docker logs {container ID}`  
  Any errors here should be clear, in case they aren't [report the issue](/documentation/troubleshoot/#report-an-issue).
- Check the Vamp configuration (`/api/v1/config`): 
  - You should use `http://` in front of TCP/HTTP addresses, but not in front of UDP connections. 
  - Make sure there are no double ports (ie 9200:9200)
 
### Check Elasticsearch
Vamp uses Elasticsearch to store HAProxy logs and calculated metrics from its event system. The Health and Metrics indices are generated by Vamp workflows. To do this, they must have access to a valid Elasticsearch Logstash index and the Vamp API. 
  
  - Check the Elasticsearch indices required by Vamp have been created:  
    `GET <elasticsearch url>/_cat/indices?v`  
     HAProxy logs: _logstash-{date}_     
     Health workflow events: _vamp-pulse-health-{date}_  
     Metrics workflow events: _vamp-pulse-metrics-{date}_   

Problem |  Action
----|----
 no indices at all  |  Check Vamp Gateway Agent (or your custom HAProxy) is storing logs in the expected format ([HAproxy 1.7.1 log format](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp-gateway-agent/blob/master/files/usr/local/vamp/haproxy.basic.cfg)).
 no Logstash index  |  Check Logstash is correctly configured ([gituhub.com/magneticio - Logstash example configuration](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp-gateway-agent)).
   |  Check Logstash can read the HAProxy logs.
   |  Check Logstash can connect to Elasticsearch.
 no Health or Metrics indices  |  SSH into a Vamp Workflow Agent container and check you can telnet to the Elasticsearch url and the Vamp API set in your Vamp configuration (available from `/api/v1/inf` or `/api/v1/config` or open a workflow and check the environment variables). 

### Check the key value store 
  - Check the key value store reports as connected in Vamp info `GET <vamp url>/api/v1/info`  
  If not, correct the configuration in `application.conf`
  - Check you can communicate with the configured key value store from where Vamp is running.  
  Zookeeper:  
  Consul:  
  etcd:  

### Check the Vamp workflows
The default Vamp workflows should be running continuously and not restarting.

  - Check that the three default workflow containers are there using `docker ps`  
  - Check the logs for each `vamp-workflow-agent` container using `docker logs {container ID}`  
    If a `failure` is reported, the workflow may not be able to talk to Elasticsearch - check the Elasticsearch configuration in `application.conf`.  
    Any errors here should be clear, in case they aren't [report the issue](/documentation/troubleshoot/#report-an-issue).

If you're still hitting problems, please [report the issue](/documentation/troubleshoot/#report-an-issue).

Did this help? If you find some of the instructions not clear enough or lacking information, please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp.io/issues/new).

---------------------

## Troubleshoot the Vamp Hello world quickstart
The Vamp hello world quickstart is a self contained testing package. If you run into problems or unexpected behaviour, we advise that you clear everything out and reinstall.

1. Stop all running containers - for example using `docker ps | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker stop 2>/dev/null`
- Clean up  your docker environment (remove stopped containers, dangling images and volumes). A script to do this: 
        
        docker rmi -f $(docker images -q -f dangling=true) 2>/dev/null
        
        echo "removing exited docker containers..."
        docker ps -a | grep 'Exited' | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker rm
        docker ps -a | grep 'Created' | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker rm
        
        echo "removing dangling docker volumes..."
        docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -qf dangling=true) 2>/dev/null `
- Restart docker machine using `docker-machine restart`.
- Reinstall [Vamp hello world](/documentation/installation/hello-world/).
- If everything is installed ok and you're running into problems using Vamp, check the [troubleshooting tips for using Vamp](/documentation/troubleshoot/#troubleshooting-tips-for-using-vamp).

Did this help? If you find some of the instructions not clear enough or lacking information, please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp.io/issues/new).

---------------------

## Troubleshooting tips for using Vamp
If you encounter problems running services on an installed version of Vamp, check the following: 

1. Confirm that everything is installed ok:
  - Check the Vamp info (using `GET <vamp url>/api/v1/info` or in the info pane of the Vamp UI).  
    If a component is not listed or reported as `not connected`, check the instructions to [troubleshoot a full Vamp installation](/documentation/troubleshoot/#troubleshoot-a-full-vamp-installation) or [troubleshoot the Vamp Hello world quickstart](/documentation/troubleshoot/#troubleshoot-the-vamp-hello-world-quickstart).
- Time-out errors in the Vamp UI? Check that the WebSocket connections to the Vamp API are open and stable
- Deployments hanging on status "deploying"? Make sure that there are enough resources (CPU and memory) available in your container cluster and that your key-value store is accessible by the Vamp Gateway Agent.
- Take some time to read through the [documentation](/documentation/using-vamp/blueprints/) and [tutorials](/documentation/tutorials/overview/).
- Ask us on gitter ([gitter.im - magneticio/vamp](https://gitter.im/magneticio/vamp))
- Still not working? [Report an issue](/documentation/troubleshoot/#report-an-issue).

Did this help? If you find some of the instructions not clear enough or lacking information, please [raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp.io/issues/new).

---------------------

## Report an issue

If you've tried the above steps and are still stuck, then let us know. We accept bug reports and pull requests on the GitHub repo for each project ([github.com - magneticio](https://github.com/magneticio)).

{{< note >}}                                  
* **Questions about how to use Vamp?** Please [check the documentation first](/documentation/).
* To suggest a change or new feature, [create a GitHub issue](https://github.com/magneticio/vamp/issues) and tag it with "feature proposal"
{{< /note >}}

When reporting issues, please include the following details:

- Description of issue.
- Vamp info, from the API: `GET <vamp url>/api/v1/info`
- Vamp config, from the API; `GET <vamp url>/api/v1/config`
- Reproduction steps.
- Which orchestrator are you using, DC/OS, Kubernetes, Rancher, etc.
- Log output from Vamp and it's various components. You can get these from the `docker logs` command on the relevant containers.
- Any other information that you might consider important.
